<!-- readme.md {% comment %}
*****************************************************************************************
*                            WARNING: DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE                             *
*                                                                                       *
* This file is generated by SUSHI. Any edits you make to this file will be overwritten. *
*                                                                                       *
* To change the contents of this file, edit the original source file at:                *
* ig-data\input\pagecontent\readme.md                                                   *
*****************************************************************************************
{% endcomment %} -->

# actors.md
Audience
: Implementors (software developers)
Purpose
: Describes the software components that a developer will implement, and provides references to the CapabilityStatement resources
deescribing the features that the developers are expected to include in their software.

# architecture.md
Audience
: Developers and development managers, software architects
Purpose
: Describes the various ways in which the actors can be deployed by multiple organizations to support communication of situation
awareness data.

# CSV_Conversion.md
Audience
: Developers

Purpose
: Describes how to convert CSV data to a MeasureReport and back again

# definitions.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: Provides key definitions for terms or concepts that developers may not be aware of (e.g., different ways of describing bed counts).

# examples.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: Provides navigation to examples, it should be broken up into different groupings for examples supporting different test cases.

# identifier_systems.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: It is empty and can likely be deleted.  It was intended to support navigation for identifier systems defined or referenced
by this guide.

# index.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: The first page (the landing page) for the guide.  It is intended to be a navigational aid that is somewhat better than the
automatically generated table of contents.  It is designed to fit (initially) on a single screen without scrolling.

# measure_aggregation.md
Audience
:
Purpose
:

# measure_automation.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide interested in automation features
Purpose
: Describes the requirements for automatic computation of measures from an EHR or other system.

# measure_creation.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation
Purpose
: Explains how to create a measure and walks through a detailed example.

# measure_group_beds.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation

Purpose
: Describes how the Beds Measure group in the guide works.

# measure_group_covid19_deaths.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation

Purpose
: Describes how the COVID 19 deaths measure group in the guide works.

# measure_group_covid19_patients.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation

Purpose
: Describes how the COVID19 Patient measure group in the guide works.

# measure_group_hospital_acquired_covid19_patients.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation
Purpose
: Describes how the COVID19 Patient measure group in the guide works.

# measure_group_ventilators.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation

Purpose
: Describes how the Ventilators measure group in the guide works.

# measure_library.md
Audience
: Measure Developers, implementors supporting automation

Purpose
: Empty right now, meant to explain how a measure library works.

# background.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide.

Purpose
: More like background and history

# phrase_book.md
Audience
: Measure Developers

Purpose
: Explains how to encode various common concepts in a measure.

# profiles.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide

Purpose
: A naviagtion aid enabling users to find profiles and extensions defined in the guide.

# security_considerations.md
Audience
: Software architects, security professionals

Purpose
: Addresses the security concerns associated with the implementation of the components described in the guide.

# situational_awareness_measures.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: Introduces the topic of situation awareness, an area that overlaps with, but is not commonly addressed
by technical professionals implementing HL7 FHIR.

# technology_environment.md
Audience
: Policy makers, technology developers not familiar with hospital information system environments

Purpose
: Explains the information systems that make up a hospital enterprise.

# test_plan.md
Audience
: Implementers, connectathon participants

Purpose
: Describes how components in the guide can be tested.

# transaction-1.md transaction-2.md transaction-3.md transaction-4.md transaction-5.md
Audience
: Implementers

Purpose
: Describes the technical requirements of interactions between actors (called transactions by this guide). This material is automatically generated from XML.


# transactions.md
Audience
: Implementers

Purpose
: Summarizes the function of each transaction described in the guide, and provides navigation to all transactions.

# use_cases.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide, decision makers
Purpose
: Summarizes key use cases in the guide

# vocabulary.md
Audience
: Readers of the guide
Purpose
: A navigation page organizing the technical artifacts (FHIR Resources) associated with the guide.




